# VBA-Challenge
VBA Module 2 Challenge HW
Read Me for Module 2 HW 

While finishing the VBA script for this assignment, I intuitively wrote a lot of the code, while minimally using two outside resources to aid in completing and analyzing some components of the dataset. I used the aid of Chat GPT and the included Xpert Learning Assistant to help construct the initial aspects of the code as I struggled to formulate a plan of attack for analyzing the data using VBA. After I acquired the preliminary code, I used simple logic to progressively complete the assignment employing previous knowledge, such as the material presented in lectures and in-class assessments we completed throughout the first couple of weeks. I applied learned concepts to work through the subsequent parts of the assignment, such as calculating the total volume and assigning certain answers to summary tables using declared variables. I then modified my script, with minor aid from the aforementioned machine-learning platforms, to progress through the final aspects of the module such as extracting the stock with the greatest percentage increase and decrease. I used the Xpert Learning assistant to ensure that the code ran on all four sheets simultaneously, as that concept, along with a few others needed for the assessment, was not taught during previous lectures concerning VBA. After hours of working on the code and Excel formatting, I have presented a distinctly unique script that accomplishes all the required analysis for this module. 

At the beginning of the code, I set all of the parameters for running the code on all four worksheets simultaneously along with all the variables. Next I set the variables equal to the starting values. Next I went through the body of the code, in which I left comments explaining my methodology, that went through storing the necessary values for each ticker and calculating the required values. Next I compared the values for greatest percentage increase, decrease, and total volume and stored them in the  second summary table, while also implementing the necessary conditional formatting for the numbers. I had to include the conditional formatting for the quarterly change column in a separate module as my computer froze when I tried to execute the script altogether. 
